Doc for Quable (#3085)
ezsystems/developer-documentation: docs/product_catalog/quable/install_quable.md

---

> description: Install and configure Quable PIM connector for Ibexa DXP

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: Install and configure Quable PIM connector for Ibexa DXP
month_change: true
```

---

# Install Quable connector

To integrate [[= product_name =]] with [[= pim_product_name =]] PIM, you need to install the [[= pim_product_name =]] connector packages, configure the connection, and set up synchronization.

## Create [[= pim_product_name =]] instance

Before installing the [[= pim_product_name =]] connector, ensure you have access to a [[[= pim_product_name =]] PIM instance](https://quable.com).

## Install packages

Run the following commands to install the required packages:

``` bash
composer require ibexa/quable-client

> composer require ibexa/connector-quable

Reviewer: Regarding API References, I thought we'll have to add them to `DXP_ADD_ONS` but, in fact, none of this two packages add something to the Contracts namespace or the REST ressources.
Am I right?

Author: You're right, but I'll add `connector-quable` to be future proof - `ibexa/quable-client` is considered internal

Reviewer: In #3119 I added them both for the purpose of the test. I feel like they could be kept in case of a specific API is exposed in the future.

```

These commands add the [[= pim_product_name =]] connector code, including services that enable communication with [[= pim_product_name =]] PIM.

## Get API credentials

To connect to [[= pim_product_name =]] PIM, you need an API token:

1. Log in to your [[= pim_product_name =]] instance (for example, `https://example.quable.com`).
2. Navigate to the [API Tokens](https://docs.quable.com/v5-EN/docs/system-api-tokens) section.
3. Copy the **Read Access Token** value for use in the configuration.

## Configure [[= pim_product_name =]] connector

In `config/packages/ibexa_connector_quable.yaml`, specify the configuration for the [[= pim_product_name =]] connector:

``` yaml
ibexa_connector_quable:
    instance_url: 'https://example.quable.com'
    api_token: '<your_api_token>'
    channel_code: '<channel_code>'
```

Replace `<your_api_token>` with the Read Access API token you obtained from [[= pim_product_name =]] in the previous step.

[[[= pim_product_name =]]'s channels](https://docs.quable.com/v5-EN/docs/content-channels) allow you to distribute your product information to defined recipients, for example e-commerce platforms.

> Select the [[= pim_product_name =]] channel you want to integrate with [[= product_name =]].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Select the [[= pim_product_name =]] channel you want to integrate within [[= product_name =]].
```

For all available configuration options, see [Configure [[= pim_product_name =]]](configure_quable_connector.md).

## Configure product catalog engine

To use [[= pim_product_name =]] as the product data source, configure [[= product_name =]]'s [product catalog](product_catalog_guide.md) to use the [[= pim_product_name =]] engine.

### Define [[= pim_product_name =]] engine

In `config/packages/ibexa_product_catalog.yaml`, add a new engine configuration:

``` yaml hl_lines="8-13"
ibexa_product_catalog:
    engines:
        local:
            type: local
            options:
                root_location_remote_id: ibexa_product_catalog_root
                product_type_group_identifier: product
        quable:
            type: quable
            options:
                taxonomy: quable
                root_location_remote_id: ibexa_product_catalog_root
                product_type_group_identifier: product
```

> This configuration defines two engines: the default `local` engine and the new `quable` engine, allowing you to work with products defined within [[= pim_product_name =]].

Reviewer: How to use both? Do I need two repositories using each? Could be an advanced example in https://ez-systems-developer-documentation--3085.com.readthedocs.build/en/3085/product_catalog/product_catalog_configuration/?

Reviewer 2: Siteaccess cannot use both at the same time. Two repositories would be needed. It is one-or-the-other.

Author: After Adrien's comment, I added this mention to https://ez-systems-developer-documentation--3085.com.readthedocs.build/en/3085/product_catalog/product_catalog_configuration/#:~:text=You%20can%20use%20a%20single%20engine%20across%20all%20repositories%2C%20or%20assign%20different%20ones%20per%20repository%2E%20Each%20repository%20can%20use%20only%20one%20product%20catalog%20engine

``` yaml hl_lines="9"
ibexa:
    repositories:
        default:
            storage: ~
            search:
                engine: '%search_engine%'
                connection: default
            product_catalog:
                engine: quable
                regions:
                    default: ~
```

## Set up languages

To use the products from [[= pim_product_name =]] within [[= product_name =]] content, make sure the [data languages](https://docs.quable.com/v5-EN/docs/data-languages) in [[= pim_product_name =]] have corresponding [languages](languages.md) in [[= product_name =]].

To preview the current language configuration in both systems, run the following command:

``` bash
php bin/console ibexa:quable:languages:check
```

Based on the returned data, adjust the language configuration as your use case requires.

## Synchronize taxonomy

After configuring the integration, synchronize [product classifications from Quable](https://docs.quable.com/v5-EN/docs/documents-classification-new-version) to [[= product_name =]]'s [taxonomies](taxonomy.md).

Run the following command to synchronize classifications:

``` bash
php bin/console ibexa:quable:classification:sync
```

> This command imports the product classification structure from [[= pim_product_name =]] PIM into [[= product_name =]], ensuring that product categories are aligned.

Reviewer: What happens to existing taxonomy? Is imported taxonomy under a new node? 
Why isn't there an `ibexa_taxonomy.taxonomies.<quable_related>.parent_location_remote_id`?
What does the earlier `ibexa_product_catalog. engines.quable.options.taxonomy: quable` means?
https://ez-systems-developer-documentation--3085.com.readthedocs.build/en/3085/product_catalog/product_catalog_configuration/ doesn't talk about `taxonomy` as an option for some `type`.
Shouldn't this "Product catalog configuration" mention `quable` as a possible value for `type`?

(🕳️🐇 Sorry for this rabbit hole's combo of questions 😅)

Author: Excellent questions, I've missed this 😄 

>  Why isn't there an ibexa_taxonomy.taxonomies.<quable_related>.parent_location_remote_id?

Your intuition was right: https://github.com/ibexa/connector-quable/blob/main/src/bundle/Resources/config/prepend/ibexa_taxonomy.yaml#L3

Basically, Quable defines its own taxonomy tree, and the engine configuration specifies the name of it.

>  Shouldn't this "Product catalog configuration" mention quable as a possible value for type?

Added as well, thanks!

3. Provide the URL to your [[= product_name =]] instance suffixed by `/webhook/quable`, for example: `https://example.com/webhook/quable`.
4. Mark it as **Activated**.
5. Enter a secret value for the **Authorization Header**.
6. Choose the following scopes:

    - Products: created, updated, deleted
    - Classifications: created, updated, deleted

The **Authorization Header** value is a [secret that must be kept secure](security_checklist.md#app_secret-and-other-secrets).

!!! note

    For local development and testing, you can consider using one of the available [tunnel providers](https://github.com/anderspitman/awesome-tunneling) to make your local instance accessible from the internet.

### Configure webhook in [[= product_name =]]

In `config/packages/ibexa_connector_quable.yaml`, specify the configuration for the [[= pim_product_name =]] connector:

``` yaml
ibexa_connector_quable:
    
    # Existing configuration (...)

    webhook_secret: '<webhook authorization header>'
```

!!! warning

    [Quable uses dynamic IP addresses](https://faq.quable.com/en/articles/8250056-what-are-the-ip-addresses-of-quable-to-add-to-the-whitelist) to connect to [[= product_name =]].

>     If your DXP instance is protected by a firewall, make sure your configuration allows connections from changing IP addresses.

Reviewer: There is not even a known IP range??

Author: I've asked if something has changed, but the FAQ entry is clear about this 😓

---
description: Install and configure Quable PIM connector for Ibexa DXP
month_change: true
---

# Install Quable connector

To integrate [[= product_name =]] with [[= pim_product_name =]] PIM, you need to install the [[= pim_product_name =]] connector packages, configure the connection, and set up synchronization.

## Create [[= pim_product_name =]] instance

Before installing the [[= pim_product_name =]] connector, ensure you have access to a [[[= pim_product_name =]] PIM instance](https://quable.com).

## Install package

> Run the following commands to install the required package:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Run the following command to install the required package:
```

``` bash
composer require ibexa/connector-quable
```

> These commands add the [[= pim_product_name =]] connector code, including services that enable communication with [[= pim_product_name =]] PIM.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The command adds the [[= pim_product_name =]] connector code, including services that enable communication with [[= pim_product_name =]] PIM.
```

## Get API credentials

To connect to [[= pim_product_name =]] PIM, you need an API token:

> 1. Log in to your [[= pim_product_name =]] instance (for example, `https://example.quable.com`).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. Log in to your [[= pim_product_name =]] instance, for example, `https://example.quable.com`.
```

2. Navigate to the [API Tokens](https://docs.quable.com/v5-EN/docs/system-api-tokens) section.

> 3. Copy the **Read Access Token** value for use in the configuration.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. Create & copy the **Read Access Token** value for use in the configuration.
```

Also, it seems that Quable recently updated this section. I'm pretty sure now keys are not created automatically, but need to be manually created.

## Configure [[= pim_product_name =]] connector

In `config/packages/ibexa_connector_quable.yaml`, specify the configuration for the [[= pim_product_name =]] connector:

``` yaml
ibexa_connector_quable:
    instance_url: 'https://example.quable.com'
    api_token: '<your_api_token>'
    channel_code: '<channel_code>'
```

Replace `<your_api_token>` with the Read Access API token you obtained from [[= pim_product_name =]] in the previous step.

[[[= pim_product_name =]]'s channels](https://docs.quable.com/v5-EN/docs/content-channels) allow you to distribute your product information to defined recipients, for example e-commerce platforms.

> Select the [[= pim_product_name =]] channel you want to integrate within [[= product_name =]].

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Select the [[= pim_product_name =]] channel that you want to integrate within [[= product_name =]].
```

For all available configuration options, see [Configure [[= pim_product_name =]]](configure_quable_connector.md).

## Configure product catalog engine

> To use [[= pim_product_name =]] as the product data source, configure [[= product_name =]]'s [product catalog](product_catalog_guide.md) to use the [[= pim_product_name =]] engine.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To use [[= pim_product_name =]] as a product data source, configure [[= product_name =]]'s [product catalog](product_catalog_guide.md) to use the [[= pim_product_name =]] engine.
```

### Define [[= pim_product_name =]] engine

In `config/packages/ibexa_product_catalog.yaml`, add a new engine configuration:

``` yaml hl_lines="8-13"
ibexa_product_catalog:
    engines:
        local:
            type: local
            options:
                root_location_remote_id: ibexa_product_catalog_root
                product_type_group_identifier: product
        quable:
            type: quable
            options:
                taxonomy: quable
                root_location_remote_id: ibexa_product_catalog_root
                product_type_group_identifier: product
```

This configuration defines two engines: the default `local` engine and the new `quable` engine, allowing you to work with products defined within [[= pim_product_name =]].

To learn more about product catalog configuration, see [Product catalog configuration](product_catalog_configuration.md).

> The [[= pim_product_name =]] integration comes with a new [taxonomy](taxonomy.md) called `quable`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The [[= pim_product_name =]] integration add-on comes with a new [taxonomy](taxonomy.md) called `quable`.
```

> By setting the `options.taxonomy` key to `quable`, you configure the engine to use it for storing product categories.

Reviewer 3: Consider providing a full path to the `taxonomy` key

Author: Added, thanks!

To preview the current language configuration in both systems, run the following command:

``` bash
php bin/console ibexa:quable:languages:check
```

Based on the returned data, adjust the language configuration as your use case requires.

## Synchronize taxonomy

After configuring the integration, synchronize [product classifications from [[= pim_product_name =]]](https://docs.quable.com/v5-EN/docs/documents-classification-new-version) to [[= product_name =]]'s [taxonomies](taxonomy.md).

Run the following command to synchronize classifications:

``` bash
php bin/console ibexa:quable:classification:sync
```

This command imports the product classification structure from [[= pim_product_name =]] PIM into [[= product_name =]], ensuring that product categories are aligned.

!!! tip

    To keep the classifications aligned, we recommend running the `ibexa:quable:classification:sync` command every night, even when using synchronization with webhooks.

## Set up real-time synchronization

> [[= pim_product_name =]] PIM can notify [[= product_name =]] about product data and classification changes in real-time using webhooks.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
[[= pim_product_name =]] PIM can notify [[= product_name =]] about product data and classification changes in real-time by using webhooks.
```

> This invalidates the cache kept in [[= product_name =]] and ensures that product information stays up to date.

Reviewer 2: Invalidation of cache directly results in product data update.

```suggestion
This invalidates the cache kept in [[= product_name =]], ensuring that product information stays up to date.
```

> Webhook configuration requires setup in both Quable PIM and [[= product_name =]].

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Webhook configuration must be set up in both Quable PIM and [[= product_name =]].
```

Slightly more natural.
